---
permalink: /ragi-idly
layout: post
title: Ragi Idly
img_src: /img/roma/ragi_idly.JPG
alt: Ragi Idly
published: true
category_nav: 8-9-months
categories:
- baby food recipes
- 8-9 months
---


<div class="recipe-content">
This is one of the most nutritious idlies possible as it's made from sprouted
ragi (finger millet) which is rich in protein. This is also why it makes it a
filling dish, heavier than the usual rice idlies we eat.
Ragi idles can be fed to babies 8 months onwards (please check with your doctor before adding salt to the batter). 
This dish serves as a nutritious breakfast for adults as well. 
<!--more-->

<h2>Ingredients :</h2>
<ul>
<li>1 cup whole grain ragi (finger millet)</li>
<li>1 cup idly rice</li>
<li>3/4 cup skinned urad dal (white whole grains)</li>
<li>1 teaspoon fenugreek (methi) seeds</li>
<li>Few drops of ghee</li>
</ul>


<h2>Procedure :</h2>
<ol>
<li>Soak ragi for 12 hours. Drain it and leave it in a muslin cloth or a
strainer for another 12 hours till it sprouts.</li>
<li>Meanwhile separately soak urad dal, methi and rice for 10 - 12 hours
(overnight works fine).</li>
<li>Grind urad dal in a mixer grinder till you get a fine paste. Add methi
seeds and ragi. Continue to grind into a fine paste.</li>
<li>Now add rice and grind leaving rice a bit coarse. This gives the idly a
good texture.</li>
<li>Leave this batter to ferment overnight with a pinch of salt (check with
doctor before adding salt).</li>
<li>Next day, the batter would have risen so ensure you have used a
slightly big container.</li>
<li>Grease idly molds with ghee and pour a ladle of batter in each mold.</li>
<li>Steam the idlies for 10 - 15 minutes on medium heat.</li>
<li>Mash and feed warm with ghee and dal.</li>
</ol>



<h2>Please Note :</h2>
<div>
<ul>
<li>Dipping idly in dal before feeding makes it easier for the baby to
swallow it.</li>
<li>You can add recommended vegetables like beans, carrot and
capsicum to the dal to make it more nutritious.</li>
<li>The dal used can be moong or toor based on your baby's taste.</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2>Nutritional Facts :</h2>
<ul>
<li>Ragi idlies are more nutritious than rice idlies. Ragi is rich in calcium
and protein.</li>
<li>Using sprouted ragi increases its nutritional value.</li>
</ul>

</div>
